# [secure-password-generator](https://lindslewis.github.io/secure-password-generator/)

## description
This secure-password-generator was started with HTML and CSS code, provided by the University of Washington Coding Bootcamp for the corresponding assignment. It started with some hints on code in the JS file, while students provided the rest. 

This page will allow users to select several parameters in order to create a password matching their parameters.

## table-of-contents
1. [usage](##usage)
2. [composition](##composition)
3. [lessons-learned](##lessons-learned)
4. [credits](##credits)

![assets\images\passGen1.jpg]
![assets\images\passGenPrompt.jpg]
![assets\images\passGenOutput.jpg]

## usage
Users will select the red generate password button in order to set the parameters for their password. Initially, they'll be asked how many characters long they want their password (between 8 and 128). If given an invalid choice, the user will be redirected to input the length again. Next, they'll be met with a series of confirmation prompts (asking for true/false), validating whether or not they wish to include lower-case letters, upper-case letters, special characters, and numbers. Once they've completed these prompts, the password generated by the code will appear in the text box.

## composition
This code consists of 3 functions. The primary two being the createPassword function, which generates its password from the genPassword function. The genPassword function declares a local var for password. It then flows into a series of if and else statements regarding the user choices in the confirmation prompts. If a character type is selected to be used, a concat statement is utilitized in order to provide a new array (chosenChars), that the randomizer will choose from for the password. It ends with a for loop, which takes the new array, chosenChars, and chooses random characters from the new array. This loop runs several times (equal to the number of characters selected for length), until a random character has been produced for the required length.

## lessons-learned
This was an extremely challenging project for me. I cycled through 4 different JS files until I had worked out enough of my prior mistakes to build a condensed and truly functioning code. 
Initially, I had not realized that each if statement did not require an else statement with it. This lead to over 300 lines of code, simply repeating my confirmation prompts over and over (say, they include lower-case letters, but didn't include upper-case. Instead of just moving on to the next prompt, I repeated the prompts in the else statement as well). I had a difficult time understanding that my initial variables needed to be arrays and not strings, as I thought strings and arrays functioned the same.
Lastly, my most glaring mistake: I accidentally redefined each of my vars that produced the characters. So this redefining made it so that my vars now equaled to the prompt given to the user, so if they returned with true, that would be what made the password, and not the characters. My passwords originally returned with a large sequence of "truetruefalsetruetruetrue." 

## credits
Information was gleaned from [W3 Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/js/default.asp) regarding java script functions and methods.

Base code was provided by the University of Washington Bootcamp assignment prompt.

Received a large amount of assistance from fellow classmate, [Axel](https://github.com/Axeljk).
